1 January 18 , 202 2 Bank of Japan Statement on Monetary Policy 1. At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board of the Bank of Japan decided upon the following. (1) Yield curve control The Bank decided , by an 8 -1 majority vote, to set the following guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period. [Note 1] The short-term policy interest rate: The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The long-term interest rate: The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. (2) Guidelines for asset purchases With regard to asset purchases other than JGB purchases, the Bank decid ed, by a unanimous vote, to set the following guidelines. a) The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. b) The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. 2. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to extend by one year the deadline for lo an disbursement under the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending. 3. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expandi ng the monetary base 2 until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J -REITs with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID- 19) and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. [Note 2] [Note 1] V oting for the action: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi, Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi, Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi, Mr. ADACHI Seiji, Mr. NAKAMURA Toyoaki, Mr. NOGUCHI Asahi, and Ms. NAKAGAW A Junko. V oting against the action: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long -term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. [Note 2] Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates t o relate it to the price stability target. Reference Meeting hours: Monday, January 17: 14:00-15:55 Tuesday, January 18: 9:00-11:39 Policy Board members present: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Chairman (Governor) Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi (Deputy Governor) Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi (Deputy Governor) Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi Mr. KATAOKA Goushi Mr. ADACHI Seiji Mr. NAKAMURA Toyoaki Mr. NOGUCHI Asahi Ms. NAKAGAWA Junko [Others present] January 17 From the Ministry of Finance: Mr. ONO Heihachiro, Deputy Vice-Minister for Policy Planning and Coordination (14:00-15:55) From the Cabinet Office: Mr. INOUE Hiroyuki, Vice-Minister for Policy Coordination (14:00-15:55) January 18 From the Ministry of Finance: Mr. OIE Satoshi, State Minister of Finance (9:00-11:19, 11:27-11:39) From the Cabinet Office: Mr. KIKAWADA Hitoshi, State Minister of Cabinet Office (9:00-11:19, 11:27-11:39) Release dates and times: Statement on Monetary Policy -- Tuesday, January 18 at 11:46 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook Report) The Bank's View -- Tuesday, January 18 at 11:46 Full text -- Wednesday, January 19 at 14:00 Summary of Opinions -- Wednesday, January 26 at 8:50 Minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting -- Thursday, March 24 at 8:50