1 September 22 , 202 3 Bank of Japan Statement on Monetary Policy 1. At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board of the Bank of Japan decided upon the following. (1) Yield curve control a) The Bank decided , by a unanimous vote, to set the following guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period. The short-term policy interest rate: The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The long-term interest rate: The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) without setting an upper limit so that 10 -year JGB yields will remain at aro und zero percent. b) Conduct of yield curve control (a unanimous vote) The Bank will continue to allow 10-year JGB yields to fluctuate in the range of around plus and minus 0.5 percentage points from the target level, while it will conduct yield curve control with greater flexibility, regarding the upper and lower bounds of the range as references, not as rigid limits, in its market operations . The Bank will offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 1.0 percent every business day through fixed -rate purchase operations, unless it is highly likely that no bids will be submitted. 1 In order to encourage the formation of a yield curve that is consistent with the above guideline for market operations, the Bank will continue with large-scale JGB purchases and make nimble responses for each maturity by, for example, increasing the amount of JGB purchases and conduct ing fixed-rate purchase operations and the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral. 1 Although no bids are expected to be submitted under the current interest rate environment, the Bank will offer fixed-rate purchase operations every business day for the time being. 2 (2) Guidelines for asset purchases (a unanimous vote) With regard to asset purchases other than JGB purchases, the Bank decided to set the following guidelines. a) The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trilli on yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. b) The Bank will maintain the amount outstanding of CP at about 2 trillion yen . It will purchase corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amount outstanding will gradually return to the pre-pandemic level of about 3 trillion yen. In adjusting the amount outstanding of corporate bonds, the Bank will give due consideration to their issuance conditions. 2. Japan's economy has recovered moderately. The pace of recovery in overseas economies has slowed. Although exports and industrial production have been affected by the developments in overseas economies, they have been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. With corporate profits being at high levels on the whole, business fixed investment has increased moderately. The employment and income situation has improved moderately. Private consumption has increased steadily at a moderate pace, despite being affected by price rises. Housing investment has been relatively weak. Public investment has increased moderately. Financial conditions have been accommodative. On the price front, the year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) is slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it has been at around 3 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass -through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Inflation expectations have shown some upward movements again. 3. Japan's economy is likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by factors such as the materialization of pent -up demand, although it is expected to be under downward pressure stemming from a slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Thereafter, as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensifies, Japan's economy is projected to continue growing at a pace above its potential growth rate. The year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) is likely to decelerate, w ith a waning of the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Thereafter, the rate of increase is projected to accelerate again moderately as the output 3 gap improves and as medium - to long -term inflation e xpectations and wage growth rise, accompanied by changes in factors such as firms' wage- and price-setting behavior. 4. Concerning risks to the outlook, t here are extremely high uncertainties surrounding Japan's economic activity and prices, including developments in overseas economic activity and prices, developments in commodity prices, and domestic firms ' wage- and price -setting behavior. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. 5. With extremely high uncertainties surrounding economies and financial markets at home and abroad, the Bank will patiently continue with monetary easing while nimbly responding to developments in economic activity and prices as well as financial conditions. By doing so, it will aim to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable and stable manner, accompanied by wage increases. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increa se in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to maintain the stability of financing, mainly of firms, and financial markets, and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Reference Meeting hours: Thursday, September 21: 14:00-16:05 Friday, September 22: 9:00-11:45 Policy Board members present: UEDA Kazuo, Chairman (Governor) HIMINO Ryozo (Deputy Governor) UCHIDA Shinichi (Deputy Governor) ADACHI Seiji NAKAMURA Toyoaki NOGUCHI Asahi NAKAGAWA Junko TAKATA Hajime TAMURA Naoki [Others present] September 21 From the Ministry of Finance: SAKAMOTO Motoru, Deputy Vice-Minister for Policy Planning and Coordination (14:00-16:05) From the Cabinet Office: INOUE Hiroyuki, Vice-Minister for Policy Coordination (14:00-16:05) September 22 From the Ministry of Finance: KANDA Kenji, State Minister of Finance (9:00-11:31, 11:38-11:45) From the Cabinet Office: IBAYASHI Tatsunori, State Minister of Cabinet Office (9:00-11:31, 11:38-11:45) Release dates and times: Statement on Monetary Policy -- Friday, September 22 at 11:52 Summary of Opinions -- Monday, October 2 at 8:50 Minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting -- Monday, November 6 at 8:50