Monetary Policy Summary, August 2025 The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The MPC adopts a medium-term and forward-looking approach to determine the monetary stance required to achieve the inflation target sustainably. At its meeting ending on 6 August 2025, the MPC voted by a majority of 5–4 to reduce Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 4%, rather than maintaining it at 4.25%. There has been substantial disinflation over the past two and a half years, following previous external shocks, supported by the restrictive stance of monetary policy. That progress has allowed for reductions in Bank Rate over the past year. The Committee remains focused on squeezing out any existing or emerging persistent inflationary pressures, to return inflation sustainably to its 2% target in the medium term. The path of disinflation in underlying domestic price and wage pressures has generally continued, albeit to different degrees. Twelve-month CPI inflation increased to 3.5% in 2025 Q2, owing to developments in energy, food and administered prices. Pay growth remains elevated, but has declined further recently, and is still expected to slow significantly over the rest of the year. Services consumer price inflation has been broadly flat over recent months. The Committee continues to be vigilant about the extent to which easing pay pressures will feed through to consumer price inflation. CPI inflation is forecast to increase slightly further to peak at 4.0% in September. Inflation is expected to fall back thereafter towards the 2% target, although the Committee remains alert to the risk that this temporary increase in inflation could put additional upward pressure on the wage and price-setting process. Overall, the MPC judges that the upside risks around medium-term inflationary pressures have moved slightly higher since May. Underlying UK GDP growth has remained subdued, consistent with a continued, gradual loosening in the labour market. A margin of slack is judged to have emerged in the economy. Downside domestic and geopolitical risks around economic activity remain, although trade policy uncertainty has diminished somewhat. At this meeting, the Committee voted to reduce Bank Rate to 4%. A gradual and careful approach to the further withdrawal of monetary policy restraint remains appropriate. The restrictiveness of monetary policy has fallen as Bank Rate has been reduced. The timing and pace of future reductions in the restrictiveness of policy will depend on the extent to which underlying disinflationary pressures continue to ease. Monetary policy is not on a pre-set path, and the Committee will remain responsive to the accumulation of evidence.